---
layout: post
title: "Week 10 - GOTW: Cardinals - Bills"
author: srang
date:   2020-11-19
categories: football
tags:
  - football
  - game of the week
---

This is now the fourth week in a row that we’ve had a bird-team in the GOTW and
second week in a row that it’s been Kyler Murray’s bird-team. And make no
mistake, this is his team. He is eighth in the league in rushing (not just
quarterbacks), sixth in passing yards, ninth in completion percentage, and
eighth in passing TDs. He is objectively a star and only in his second year.
The biggest thing holding back this Cardinals team is the penalties. They lead
the league in both number of penalties and total penalty yards (interestingly
enough they also lead the league in number of penalties called in their favor,
maybe there’s something in the water).

The first half of this game was a kicker’s fever dream with six first half
field goals. That said, all field goals are not created equal. Bills defense
had two monster defensive stands inside the 10 yard line, after letting the
Cardinals drive the ball over 70 yards. Those drives resulted in Zane Gonzalez
layups. On the other side of the ball, the Bills had a sixth round draft pick
out of Georgia Southern kicking personal bests THREE TIMES in just the first
half. Tyler Bass started his day with a 54, then a 55, and then nailing a 59
(!!) yarder right before halftime. The biggest takeaway from this first half
(besides being happy for Bass) is lack of aggression from Klif. They kicked
field goals from the 3 and the 5 yard lines with the aforementioned stellar
Kyler Murray sitting on the sideline! Between that and all the penalties, there
is plenty of room for improvement. </vent>

The third quarter saw the Bills pull ahead, and then let the Cardinals back
into this game, and after a handful of punts (including a 12 yarder) and each
team failing to turn interceptions into points the real game started. With
about three and a half minutes on the clock, the Bills got the ball back after
a bad interception on the previous drive trailing by three. Josh Allen did a
great job of efficiently moving the ball and not giving up the big negative
plays (he had a great stiff arm/throwaway early in the drive), and was helped
out by Cole Beasley who had a highlight reel one handed catch as well as a key
2nd-and-13 conversion. Once they got inside field goal range, the Bills started
getting very careful about the clock, getting out of bounds and burning a
timeout, until all of a sudden Josh Allen delivers a 21 yard touchdown strike
to Stefon Diggs to - by all appearances - win the game. Stefon got to bask in
the lime light, high-fiving all of his teammates and explaining that was why he
came to Buffalo... HOWEVA there were still 34 seconds on the clock...

Instead of working the sidelines from the get-go, Kyler connected on a few
passes underneath, which moved them into the Bills side of the field but also
burned their remaining timeouts. Then with 21 seconds on the clock Kyler wasted
10 seconds searching downfield for what amounted to a short dump off to Larry
Fitzgerald who wisely got out of bounds after picking up the first down. That
left 11 seconds just inside the 45 yard line. Enough for one or two throws at
the endzone. He only needed one. Getting flushed from the pocket, Murray
scrambled left, slipped a defender, and then uncorked a deep shot into the end
zone. Somehow, someway, Deandre Hopkins (who is only 6’1”) levitated over the
three surrounding defenders to come down with the “hail murray” pass. Cardinals
win (as does [Jordan Brand](https://arizonasports.com/story/2454035/cardinals-hopkins-wont-see-any-of-5-7-million-in-jordan-brand-exposure/))

